# Pa2 report

## Implementation

#### Step1: Sort PI
As the output has to be sorted, I traversed each PI and then sort their names according to their IDs. 

#### Step2: Create cone
Create cone for each PO.
```
pNtkRes = Abc_NtkCreateCone( pNtk, Abc_ObjFanin0(pCo), Abc_ObjName(pCo), 0 );
```
The last augument is set to 0 due to runtime issue. I can only need the support PIs to do the work.

Negated PO in cone has to be issued.

```
if(!Abc_ObjFaninC0(pCo)) Abc_ObjSetFaninC(Abc_NtkPo(pNtkRes,0),0);
```

#### Step3: Convert into CNF
Convert the cone derived above into AIG, then covert it into CNF. It will need two CNF to do the

reasoning, so duplicate it and lift ID with the number of variables to avoid repeated IDs.

Below are the APIs.
```
pAig = Abc_NtkToDar( pNtkRes, 0, 0 );
pCnf = Cnf_Derive( pAig, 1 );
pCnf2 = Cnf_DataDup( pCnf );
Cnf_DataLift( pCnf2, pCnf->nVars );
```

#### Step4: Add CNF clauses to SAT solver
Initialize a SAT solver, and add CNF clauses and its copies to it.
```
sat_solver *pSat;
pSat = sat_solver_new();
sat_solver_setnvars( pSat, 2*pCnf->nVars );
for ( k = 0; k < pCnf->nClauses; k++ ){
    if ( !sat_solver_addclause( pSat, pCnf->pClauses[k], pCnf->pClauses[k+1] ) )
            sat_solver_delete( pSat );
    if ( !sat_solver_addclause( pSat, pCnf2->pClauses[k], pCnf2->pClauses[k+1] ) )
            sat_solver_delete( pSat );
}
```
In addition to CNF clauses, we need to add constraint clauses to manipulate the equivalence 

of positive and negative cofactor, e.g. (¬α+x+x'). To do this, the API below is convenient. 
```
Aig_ManForEachCi( pAig, pCi, j){
    assump[j] = sat_solver_addvar(pSat);
    sat_solver_add_buffer_enable( pSat, pCnf->pVarNums[Aig_ObjId(pCi)], 
    pCnf2->pVarNums[Aig_ObjId(pCi)], assump[j], 0 );
}
```
Each PI has its constraint clause. Note that before adding buffer enable, we need to add variable

to SAT solver, which is the corresponding α. I store it in order to make the assumption later.

#### Step5: Make assumptions on CNF in SAT solver
After setting all clauses in SAT solver, now we can assign the value we want on specific variables.

Declare a lit array to store the assumptions, I firstly tackle with α for each PI.
```
for(m=0;m<Aig_ManCiNum(pAig);m++){
        if(m==n) Lits[m] = toLitCond( assump[m], 1 );
        else Lits[m] = toLitCond( assump[m], 0 );
        Lits2[m] = Lits[m];
}
```
If α corresponds to which PI, enable it and disable the others, which means other PIs are all equal 

except for the corresponding PI. Lits is for positive unate whereas Lits2 is for negative.

Second, set the corresponding PI value. Take positive unate for example, x=0 and x'=1, note that

the last argument of toLitCond is the complement of the assigned value.
```
Lits[m] = toLitCond( pCnf->pVarNums[Aig_ObjId(pCi)], 1 );
Lits[m+1] = toLitCond( pCnf2->pVarNums[Aig_ObjId(pCi)], 0 );
```
Finally, set the output value.
```
Lits[m+2] = toLitCond( pCnf->pVarNums[Aig_ObjId(pCo)], 1 );
Lits[m+3] = toLitCond( pCnf2->pVarNums[Aig_ObjId(pCo)], 0 );
```
#### Step6: SAT solver solving
Just call the API and and pass the assumption we just made.
```
status = sat_solver_solve(pSat, Lits, Lits+4, 50000000, 50000000, 0, 0);
```
By the status value, we can justify the satisfiability. Value -1 means UNSAT and 1 means SAT. 

Therefore, if status is -1, we proved positive unate for which PI. There is status2 to judge negative

unate. And both are 1 means binate.

#### Step7: Output results
I use vectors to store pos unate, neg unate and binate PIs. Traverse all PIs in the network again 

and compare the PI name in each vector. There may exist a case that a PI is not in these three vectors

since it's not a support input. This PI is regard as both positive and negative unate.

## Optimization
There is a way to create cone with all PIs rather than only support inputs. Just set the last argument 1.

However, this method is too slow to run all test cases in 300 seconds. So my optimization is to set it 

to 0. And do some addition work to tackle with the non-support inputs, such as sorting and string 

comparison.
